---
title: Mobile Robot I/O Project
description: >
  Journals my findings being a newbie DIY / amature Robot builder.
date: 2018-01-15
categories: [ robotics ]
---

Hello, and welcome to the _Mobile Robot_ project.  This project was
created to document the process as we build a _useful_ Mobile Robot
for under $500.

 > A self driving vehicle capable of filming underneath and around my
 > house for under $500USD.

To accomplish this goal we are going to have to solve several
non-trivial problems from a range of disciplines including, but not
limited to:

## Electronics and Power

By useful we mean, to perform a task or set of tasks that some people
would find useful.  The goals is to limit ourselves to inexpensive,
off the shelf electronic components and mechanical elements.

The goal of
this project is to build a robot that will:


The goal of this project is to build a self driving robot that will
film under my house, and collect other sensor data, it could be used
as a mobile DVR or live video streamer.  For under $500 USD!

, mobile DVR or
live video streamer, for under USD $500.

This is an ambitious project for a number of reasons: first of all
Beginning Robotics is a complex topic, beyond the basics are (some
would say) literally no limits.

The other reason this is an amitious project: I know very little about
the various disciplines required to design, build and operate a Robot,
except one.

This project requires a reasonable amount of knowledge in Electronics,
Mechanics, Materials and Power, it also requires software and
commuications (which happens to be my background).

## The Big Idea

The idea is to build an _Affordable yet Useful_ robot.  Something that
fits a gap between Big Science stuff from NASA, MIT, Standford and
some of the amazing "toy" robots that can be found or built for under
$100.

Build on the affordable Robotics and MicroControllers so prevalent
today to build:

> Affordable, but Practical Robots

A robot that can be built by a person or small team in a modest
workshop or makerspace.

## Tank Project

The project goal is to build a Mobile Robot that can drive around
under my house and video tape it.  The Robot will need to navigate
wirelessly, it will also need to carry some configuration of sensors
in addition to the camera, such as temprature, moisture, etc.

