---
title: About
description: This page is about this Project
date: 2019-04-20
---

I am a software engineer by trade, and design.  Much of the 30 years
or so I have been programming and messing with computers have involved
computer networks, real-time systems or the Internet, in one way or
another.

I have always been fascinated with the idea that a person can get two
electronic boxes to talk to one another, or used by humans to
communicate with one another.  How cool is that!

## Computer Communication

These days, I am still just as fascinated with _computer
communications_ as ever, only now it is less focused on global
internet style communications, but more close proximity and real time
networks, like those you might see on a Robot or automobile. 

### Let Them Eat Chips

That is due to the fact that hardware (powerful, sophisticated)
hardware can be purchased for less than a days worth of meals is mind
boggling to me.

We are now sitting in a game changing technological perfect storm,
powerful micro controllers / computers and cheap electronics have
opened access to building blocks available to almost everybody.

Technology for less the a cup of coffee that can interact with the
real world.  You know things like _Sensor Networks_ and _Robotics_.
Each requiring realtime interprocess communication as well as
connecting to the Internet in an IoT sort of way.

### A Robot For a Nice Dinner?

Now a $4 chip easily connects to a ubiquitous wifi network.  Has
enough processing power to collect real time video and interact with
the physical world through programmable "pins" that observe and change
the world is INSANE.

## Build a Robot with Video

This website was created to track and document the development of the
Mobile Robot Project, an attempt to build a Discovery Rover, a remote
controllable, video streaming discovery rover.  For under $500.

While this website documents the development of a specific mobile
robot. It is by no means an attempt to say this is **the** way to
build a mobile robot.

Rather, it is my intention to document The results of various Proof of
concepts that lead to our design decisions.  It  Is also a goal of this
project to create a set of modular and reusable blocks of hardware and
software that will aid in the _rapid prototyping_ of different
configurations of robots to support a variety of applications.

## Robotics Library

I intend to document a variety of design trade-offs as we come across
them.  It is my hope that the documents and other resources that I
stumble across are going to be of help, perhaps for a different
application or perhaps to understand the reasoning behind the choices
we do make.

## About This Website

This website is a [static website](static-websites) written in
[markdown](http://daringfireball.io/markdown), HTML is generated by
[Hugo](http://gethugo.io) with the help of [Go
Templates](http://golang.org/templates/html). 

The server for this website is hosted by a virtual server at [Digital
Ocean](http://digitalocean.com).  The CDN for MobileRobot.io is
provided by [Digital Ocean Spaces](http://digitalocean.com)
at digital ocean. 

The repository for all sources are under the [github
repo](http://github.com/mobilerobot-io/mobilerobot.io). 

I just added Google Analytics to the site, let's see if _we_ get any
visitors.  At the time of this writing, I am pretty much talking to
myself.

