---
title: About
<<<<<<< HEAD
description: This page is about this Project
date: 2019-04-20
---

I am a software engineer by trade, and design.  Much of the 30 years
or so I have been programming and messing with computers have involved
computer networks, real-time systems or the Internet, in one way or
another.

I have always been fascinated with the idea that a person can get two
electronic boxes to talk to one another, or used by humans to
communicate with one another.  How cool is that!

## Computer Communication

These days, I am still just as fascinated with _computer
communications_ as ever, only now it is less focused on global
internet style communications, but more close proximity and real time
networks, like those you might see on a Robot or automobile. 

### Let Them Eat Chips

That is due to the fact that hardware (powerful, sophisticated)
hardware can be purchased for less than a days worth of meals is mind
boggling to me.

We are now sitting in a game changing technological perfect storm,
powerful micro controllers / computers and cheap electronics have
opened access to building blocks available to almost everybody.

Technology for less the a cup of coffee that can interact with the
real world.  You know things like _Sensor Networks_ and _Robotics_.
Each requiring realtime interprocess communication as well as
connecting to the Internet in an IoT sort of way.

### A Robot For a Nice Dinner?

Now a $4 chip easily connects to a ubiquitous wifi network.  Has
enough processing power to collect real time video and interact with
the physical world through programmable "pins" that observe and change
the world is INSANE.

## Build a Robot with Video

This website was created to track and document the development of the
Mobile Robot Project, an attempt to build a Discovery Rover, a remote
controllable, video streaming discovery rover.  For under $500.

While this website documents the development of a specific mobile
robot. It is by no means an attempt to say this is **the** way to
build a mobile robot.

Rather, it is my intention to document The results of various Proof of
concepts that lead to our design decisions.  It  Is also a goal of this
project to create a set of modular and reusable blocks of hardware and
software that will aid in the _rapid prototyping_ of different
configurations of robots to support a variety of applications.

## Robotics Library

I intend to document a variety of design trade-offs as we come across
them.  It is my hope that the documents and other resources that I
stumble across are going to be of help, perhaps for a different
application or perhaps to understand the reasoning behind the choices
we do make.
=======
description: >
  Mobile Robot I/O is an actvie project of to develop a mobile video
  camera for under $500!
date: 2019-04-20
---

The version of mobile robot I am trying to build here is of the
[_Rover Style Vehical_](http://todo/rover-reference) 4 wheeled, skid
steer persuation.  It must be capable of streaming live video while
being controlled remotely by human or on vehical by software, at the
humans descretion, at least for now any way...
<!--more-->

An even more ambitious goal has the vehicle using the live video
stream as an input to perform it's _Guidance & Navigation_ function.
This will most likely be accomplished by feeding an AI like framework
such as OpenCV to perform some specific _Machine Learning_
algorithms. 

## Project Goals and Objectives

In building this project, I set out to state the major goals and
objectives, primarily to keep myself focused on an end object with a
very measurable goal, that can be marked as **complete**.

Here are the high level objectives:

- Vehical that can be controlled by humans with a remote control
- live video stream for human consumption
- live video stream fed to computer vision software
- video and image storage for post/static processing 
- self guided control software
  
The choice of human vs. computer controlled lies at the discretion of
the human (for now), except, perhaps, in cases that the human looses
communication with the vehicle.

This website basically documents the results, mistakes and what I have
_discovered_ a long the way, both discovery the best way to build the
vehicle, notes, and practicle and useable advice from the production
lines. 

## Agency [Ignore This Solicitation!]

Please do not read this if solicitations offend you!

I will happily take on a few programming gigs to help fund this
effort!  Also, I would like put together an agency that specializes in
building customized automation and robotic systems with modern
hardware. 
>>>>>>> 085970d6d0704881459bf837f545b3489541058a

## About This Website

This website is a [static website](static-websites) written in
[markdown](http://daringfireball.io/markdown), HTML is generated by
[Hugo](http://gethugo.io) with the help of [Go
Templates](http://golang.org/templates/html). 

The server for this website is hosted by a virtual server at [Digital
Ocean](http://digitalocean.com).  The CDN for MobileRobot.io is
provided by [Digital Ocean Spaces](http://digitalocean.com)
at digital ocean. 

The repository for all sources are under the [github
repo](http://github.com/mobilerobot-io/mobilerobot.io). 

I just added Google Analytics to the site, let's see if _we_ get any
visitors.  At the time of this writing, I am pretty much talking to
myself.

